# Checkers-AI
Implementation of the game of Checkers, as well as an AI to play against.
- We used the basics of a 2D array to visualise the game of checkers. This was a challenging project, as it required us to understand how exactly to implement the game correctly according to the basic rules of checkers. In building the AI, we struggled at first with how to determine the best move possible. It was easy to move pieces at random, but building structure around how the computer plays was challenging. We settled with trying to king any piece on the board first, then looking at other moves.
- Our AI plays by looking at the pieces in the frontmost row (the pieces closest to winning), and trying to move them. If that move is impossible, then it looks at the next closest piece to victory (perhaps a few rows behind), and tries to move that piece. However, if there is a possible capture move, it performs the capture. As previously mentioned, the only issue is that sometimes it gets stuck on the sides of the board and can only get "unstuck" if it is able to capture a piece. In addition, sometimes the AI takes two turns out of order, which would defy the traditional rules of checkers.

If we had more time, aside from fixing the bugs, it would have been cool to explore other python libraries and perhaps create a way to visualize the game, rather than playing it in the terminal. It would be cool to be able to drag the pieces and move them manually rather than having to find the coordinates on the board, which is hard to do because of the small print.
